PAUL LEWIS: Hello, and welcome
to bonus round number two,
also known as, give the
people what they want.
In bonus round one, I showed
you that we added notifications
to the site, and
I said, just let
me know if you want to
see the backend code.
And virtually every
comment in YouTube
was like, show us the
back end code, now.
OK, all right.
Well, far be it from
me to prevent you
from seeing the code
you wish to see.
At the moment, the
code is not on GitHub.
But who knows, by the time
this goes out, it may well be.
I just need to do
a bit of tidy up,
and just generally look
through it, and just make
sure there's nothing in there.
I'm sure you can
imagine, there's
things like OAuth,
secrets, and stuff
like that for actual
authentication.
So I just need to make
sure that none of that's
actually going to
go out unexpectedly.
So it might just take
me a little bit longer
to just get through that,
because I do actually
have a bunch of stuff
on at the moment.
There you go.
Excuses come as standard.
Right, let's look at
some code, since that's
what we're all here for.
That's a really
good little motion.
Right, OK.
So the thing about
the server-side side
of sending push notifications,
there's two parts
that you need to think of.
Firstly, there's the master
and then there's the workers.
Probably in correct terminology,
I would call them slaves,
but there we go.
I'm calling them workers.
So you see on screen
I have the index
that the thing is actually
going to run, first of all.
And it uses nodes
cluster module which
is really helpful
in this situation.
And what it does is,
the first node process
to run this code will be
considered the master.
And so I assign it
the role of master,
and then everybody else is
assigned the role of worker.
And you'll see what
that means in a moment.
So basically I'm
requiring whichever role
you've been given, and then
I tell that one to init.
So both of these modules
the master and worker
both have been init,
so I can just call it,
and it'll be fine.
So let's look at
master first of all.
Master has really
kind of two jobs.
One is to spin up an express
server so that there's
an admin interface.
Let me show you that.
Looks like this.
And you can see that we've
got all the various sessions.
And then there's the generic,
"I want to send an event". "
So it's not the prettiest
thing in the world,
but it'll do the job
just fine and dandy.
So it spins that
up as an express
server, and the
other thing it does
is it maintains a list
of all the messages
that need to be sent.
So in the backend, when
we click on the button--
and I'll show you code
for this in a moment.
When we click on the
button, that says,
OK, tell everybody the
keynote's starting.
It puts this here, actually,
you can see this in queue here.
Pushes the task
onto the task list,
and it will wake up the
workers to go and actually do
that work, and we'll come
back to that in but a moment.
So most of this is not
that exciting, perhaps.
Let me just-- hang on.
Where's a good place
to-- ah, there we go.
The init that I called, it
creates the workers as needed,
which we'll have a
look at in a moment.
And also init's the server.
So the 'create workers as
a needed' function is here.
And I basically look
through the number
of existing workers, which
at the start will be zero.
And then I figure out the total
work account minus the number
that we've already got.
So the work account is
right up at the top,
and it's based on the
number of CPUs available.
That means that if I say, I
have a machine with eight cores,
I take one off the length.
So I basically assign one
CPU to being the master,
and running the express server.
And then the remaining seven
would go to running workers.
If I had 32 cores, or 32 CPUs,
it would be 31 for the workers,
and one again for the
process, the master.
And I default it
to four, so even
if I have a machine
with one CPA I'm
going to run four
workers, and then one.
So at least a minimum
of five node processors.
So that's how that works.
Let's have a look at the server
code, because most of it's
sort of what you'd expect.
It's kind of standard
express stuff.
Although what I do,
right at the start,
I actually load the
session's JSON from the site.
And I pass that through
to the admin renderer,
in order to actually--
where are you?
In the admin section, to
actually render the admin.
So I get the sessions, and
then I render the admin section
with that.
And then that's just
handlebars, just
stepping through those objects.
All works just fine.
When we actually
send a message-- let
me go into the
code for that, this
is in the subscriptions area.
It's ping, and it takes the
keys, which is done here.
Yep.
I'm using the web-push
library, which
we'll link to in the notes.
I said that in the last episode,
and I don't think we did.
But I think we will this time.
I'm using the Web Push
library from node,
and you can ask it to
generate vapid keys.
Vapid is the cross
browser encryption
keys that you need
if you're going
to send a payload to devices.
And it means that you can deal
with Google Cloud end points
if your subscribers
are using Chrome,
or a Mozilla end point
If they're using Firefox.
And vapid is the cross browser
way of encrypting your payload.
And so you want
something, really,
that generates
vapid keys for you,
because doing encryption on
your own is not that much fun,
and this does it for me,
so I can create vapid keys.
And the other thing you'll
see around the code here,
is this ds, which
is the data store.
I'm using a Google
Cloud data store
to store all the keys,
and the subscriptions,
and everything else.
You could just as
well use MySQL,
you could just as well use
MongoDB, whatever backend
data store would make sense.
In my case, I'm running on
Google Cloud, so why not
use that?
It makes perfect sense, and
it's very convenient for me.
So when we do a
ping, we've already
got the keys, because I generate
those once at the start.
And I store those
in the data store,
so that I'm not generating
new keys every time,
you want to have the same keys.
The ID is the slug,
the dev summit
slash schedule slash keynote.
Because when we're
in the backend,
we can send to, say, for
example, those people.
And so the ID, that target,
if you like, is those.
The message that we want to
send will be the same thing.
It'll actually, mostly
likely be this [INAUDIBLE].
Or it could be, if it's
the general 'send an event'
it'll just be some
free text or some emoji
or whatever it needs to be.
And then there's a link
back to the master,
so I do a kind of
dependency injection
when I init the server.
You'll notice here, I pass
in a reference to a master
here so that it can ping back.
OK.
So for argument's
sake, let's say
we've got a 1,000 endpoints
registered across a whole range
of sessions.
This retrieval filters
them down by those
who just want to,
say, get the keynote,
or just get Jake's session on
the future of service worker
stuff.
So we filter those down, and we
get back a bunch of endpoints.
And for each of those endpoints,
as I mentioned earlier,
there is an enqueue
function in the master.
And we pass through both
the keys, the endpoint,
and subscription, and the actual
message that we want to send.
And then in my case, I also
log the number of people,
or the number of endpoints
that we've pinged.
So we can see in the
backend, this one definitely
went to, like, 300 people, or
it went to however many people.
Don't know how many
it's going to be.
Right, so the master enqueue,
I mentioned it before.
All it does is, it pushes
the task onto an array.
So the master has
this global array
of messages that
need to be sent.
It steps through all the
workers that were created,
and it pings them.
It just sends this
ping message, which
will cause them to wake up.
And again, there's a bit
of [INAUDIBLE] from me,
just to kind of go,
the job started.
Yeah.
Right.
Now we get to talk
about the workers,
they're on the
other side of this.
So as I said, our
master has got two jobs.
One is to maintain this
queue, and when we send,
we populate this queue.
So, let's say, we had
a 1,000 endpoints,
100 people wanted the keynote,
so we'll fill this array,
and it'll have 100 entries
in it at this point.
And we ping the
workers to wake up.
The 'on' message is
where that then kicks in.
And if it gets a ping and
it is sleeping, it wakes up.
And we call processs
dot next tick, which
is kind of like a set-to
media, or setTimeout zero.
But it's proper, neat, and tidy.
It's not setTimeout zero.
It's the proper node
way of doing it,
is the best way to say it.
And they've optimized it, it's
not just like setTimeout zero.
It's properly done, apparently,
to call this request tasker.
So the request task is up here.
All that does is, it calls
this send function, which
you see there, basically posts
back to the master, and says,
I want a task, please.
So the master has woken them up.
Each of the workers is going
to come back to the master
and say, I want a task, please.
Which you can see down
here, on work message.
If they say, I want to task
please, we pop one off the end.
So you, strictly speaking,
might want to unshift, then
take the front of the queue.
I don't, I just pop
the back off the queue.
It doesn't matter, really.
Ultimately the queue will get
depleted, one way or another.
And it sends that
back to the worker,
it says, here's a task for you.
One task, off you go and do it.
So the worker, well,
when it's got a task--
oh yeah, you see, if there
is no task for it to do,
the queue's empty, the
worker goes back to sleep.
OK, and we'll wait for the next
ping before it tries again.
But assuming it
gets given a task,
it sets the vapid keys that
it had from way back when.
And there's also a
URL that you give it.
I default the TTL to 30 minutes.
A session's about
30 minutes, I think.
I don't know we've got
any more than 30 minutes.
If for some reason
you don't pick up
that message in 30
minutes, it doesn't
feel right to be like, "Hey,
the keynote's starting now,"
if the keynote's
no longer running.
So I'm hoping that
that will just
mean that the
messages will expire,
and we don't over notify
and bug people, when
they don't need to be bothered.
And then we call the
send notification,
which is, again, a convenience
method on the library,
which is brilliant.
And you give it
the subscription,
which will contain the endpoint
and the keys, some more
keys, the message that
you wanted to send.
And if there's any issues at
all, I just kill the worker.
And there is, in the
master, if a worker
is killed-- there we are,
on exit, on disconnect--
it will come back and it will
try and recreate any workers.
So say, for example,
for whatever reason,
we had eight workers, and
four of them were killed,
then we would create four new
ones here to kind of replenish
and always bring us back
up to the correct number.
So it's good.
That works just fine as well.
So what else do we
need to show you,
or do I need to show
you, in the workers?
So hopefully at this point we've
managed to send a notification.
And then we go back and
ask for another task.
So as each worker is getting
to the end of its task,
it goes back to the
master and says,
have you got any
more work for me?
Eventually that queue
will be depleted,
and the worker will say,
oh, I've got nothing,
I will go to sleep.
And it will then
wait until it gets
the ping from the master
saying, oh, there's
a new job for everybody,
let's get through this.
Now I like this approach
because of the fact
that I get to control
the number of workers.
If I decide to deploy
something with 32 cores,
or 16 cores, or 8
cores, or 4 cores,
it means that I get to decide
how many workers there are.
Well, there will always be
one for the master process.
But this, for me, is
good, because if I
feel like this is
going to be bursty,
I could be like, OK, just
spin up a load of workers.
And they can churn
through the queue,
they can go at the same time,
concurrently, or parallelized.
They're different things.
They are, and I forget the
difference in definition.
Meh.
But they run at the same time.
It was splitting the work out,
and that's under my control
as to how many of
those there are.
I can just have one, I can
have as many as I need,
and that means it works
out really well for me.
So there you go, that
is the backend code.
It is in JavaScript.
For those of you wondering why
it's in JavaScript, and not
in Python, for legacy reasons
the site is in Python.
As it's always been in
Python since I first
did it four years ago, three
years ago, I don't know.
I guess three years ago.
And it's just always
been in Python,
and that's not a big deal.
But this I wanted
to keep separate.
I wanted it on it's
its own separate thing.
As a separate almost
service that I
can spin up and spin down for
Chrome Dev Summit independently
of the site.
So it felt wrong to
me to have something
that is both serving the site
and handling notifications.
Because if the pushing
notifications sort of
becomes CPU intensive,
for whatever reason,
I didn't want to jeopardize the
site serving in that process.
So it felt like it just
kept them separate,
and that all works
out well for me.
And the other main thing,
and it is not insignificant,
is that the Web Push library
for node is really good.
It's incredibly convenient, and
it does the things you need.
It generates the keys, it will
encrypt a message for you,
and it will send
it to the endpoint.
The three things you
really need it to do
are the three things it
will do just perfectly.
So the fact that
it's a well tested,
robust library for actually
doing the push messaging,
combined with the fact
that things like express
are really nice as
well, just meant
it was a very easy fit to do
all this bit in JavaScript.
Cool.
I hope by this point
the code is on GitHub.
If it is, you'll
be able to find it.
Probably there will be a link
in the description below.
Brilliant.
Who knows if there'll
be another bonus round?
I don't know.
It depends on how much more
I get done before Chrome Dev
Summit itself.
Speaking of which, don't
forget that you can subscribe
to the channel, and as
the live stream goes live,
you'll get that notification.
You can get actual
notifications.
We have talked about this
before, don't know if you know.
But you can get
those on the site,
so if you want to subscribe
to a particular session.
I don't have any
sessions this year.
But if I did, you could
subscribe to that.
But you can subscribe
to someone like, Jake's.
He's got a session,
and I have it
on good authority
that it's going to be
another good one from him.
But they're all
going to be good,
so you should subscribe
to all of them.
Good.
Right.
Thank you very much for
joining me once again.
Take it easy, and
I'll catch you, maybe,
in another one of these.
[MUSIC PLAYING]